icon Engs50 (CS50)[Labs] [Notes] [Reading] [Resources] [Examples]
Reading assignments
Week 1
Unix shell and commands

Choose your tools well by Giovanni Asproni
Learn to use a real editor by Diomidis Spinellis
Basics of the Unix Philosophy (just a few pages), a subset of chapter 1 of The Art of Unix Programming, by Eric S. Raymond.
The Strange Birth and Long Life of Unix, by Warren Toomey  IEEE Spectrum 2011
Interview with Doug McIlroy, by Rik Farrow  ;login 2016
Optional

MINIX retrospective, by Andrew Tanenbaum, a professor who created MINIX, and whose student Linus Torvalds created Linux.
Week 2
shell and C programming

CS50 coding style guidelines.
The Unix tools are your friends by Diomidis Spinellis
The professional programmer by Uncle Bob
Know how to use command line tools by Carroll Robinson
Comment only what the code cannot say by Kevlin Henney
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Week 3
C programming, memory allocation, data structures

CS50 coding style guidelines.
Dont Just Learn the Language, Understand its Culture, by Anders Norås
Comments on Comments, Cal Evans
Take Advantage of Code Analysis Tools, by Sarah Mount
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Week 4
Web searching

Skim Searching the Web, by Arasu, et.al. This paper provides a foundation for the TinySearchEngine assignments (Labs 4-6).
Prevent errors, by Giles Colborne
Use the right algorithm and data structure, by J.C. van Winkel
Write small functions using examples, by Keith Braithwaite.
The Linker Is not a Magical Program, by Walter Bright.
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Week 5
Software design, testing, debugging

Fighting Bugs: Remove, Retry, Replicate, and Rejuvenate, by Grottke and Trivedi.
Code in the Language of the Domain, by Dan North.
Dont Be Afraid to Break Things, by Mike Lewis.
Finish skimming Searching the Web, by Arasu, et al.
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Week 6
Coding; TSE indexer

Verbose Logging Will Disturb Your Sleep, by Johannes Brodwall
Code Layout Matters, by Steve Freeman.
Only the Code Tells the Truth, by Peter Sommerlad.
Section 4 of Searching the Web, by Arasu, et al.
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Week 7
Testing; Networking

Berkeley sockets, on Wikipedia.
Dont ignore that error, by Pete Goodliffe.
Keep the build clean, by Johannes Brodwall.
Lecture notes and any lecture extras associated with this weeks lectures.
Engs50 (CS50) -- Dartmouth College
This version of the course is based upon those designed by Professors Palmer, Kotz, Zhou, Campbell, and Balkcom. I am deeply indebted to these outstanding educators. -- Stephen Taylor

This page was last updated on 2018-10-10 at 18:07.
